in this video I provide insight on how I
like to photograph and edit coins to
begin one needs a small table I suggest
a sheet of plain paper to provide the
background for the image one will need
to position the tripod where the corner
of the table is between the legs of the
tripod as shown I begin with a tripod
extended all the way and use my 18 to
200 millimeter zoom lens at the widest
aperture this is essential as the zoom
provides a shallower depth of field a
ring light allows for even illumination
of the coin here is how it looks mounted
on the camera one thing to note is where
the groove along the ball head of the
tripod is so that the camera can be set
vertically down perpendicular to the
surface of the coin with the tripod
extended the coin is occupying a small
area in the field of view one can then
move the neck of the camera down to
where the coin fills up a larger area in
the field of view well this allows the
coin to fill up more of the area of the
image there are still a few issues first
it could fill up more of the field of
view and second with the zoom extended
all the way the lens is too close to the
coin to get it in focus
one needs to also make sure the coin is
centered in the frame so that the lights
from the ring light are reflecting away
from the coin and not where the coin is
this is where a lens extender comes into
play
since the Silver Dollar being
photographed is a larger sized coin all
that is needed are the two rings on the
ends which attach to the lens and the
camera this is what it looks like
mounted to the camera and how the lens
looks extended all the way the next step
is to adjust the ring light to make sure
it is set on the light mode rather than
the flash mode also one needs to adjust
the light intensity accordingly with my
ring light the lowest setting works just
fine as the brighter settings will
bleach out the surface of the coin
unless one increases the f-stop to
reduce the aperture now the coin can be
centered in the frame occupying as much
of the field of view as possible and
also be in focus one needs to make sure
that the top and bottom edges of the
coin are still in the frame so that the
coin isn't cropped to photograph the
other side of the coin very little
adjustment if any will be needed
sometimes the coins will be suspended in
their holder as shown if one has a clear
holder it can be relatively easy to
conceal it as long as it is only
covering the extreme edge of the coin
also one needs to make sure the
reflection from the lights are not
directly over the surface of the coin
here is what a Morgan dollar looks like
through the camera a $20 gold piece is
slightly smaller than the Morgan dollar
looking at the reverse of the coin one
can see the reflection of the lights off
to the side and it is not interfering
with the surface of the coin however one
can get the coin to fill up more of the
frame by adding an extra ring to the
macro lens extender I use the smallest
one due to the small size difference
between the two coins now the coin is
filling up more of the frame it is
important to fill up the frame since one
gets a larger image of the coin one can
always scale down to improve image
quality but one cannot scale up notice
the scratch on the plastic holder that
the coin is in by adding an extra ring
one reduces the depth of field a little
more to help
I'd the scratch a little although it
will still show there are a few notes to
remember when taking a photograph of
coins first it is recommended to always
use the widest aperture of the lens
using a longer lens will help minimize
the depth of field to help hide
scratches on the holder have the coin
fill up as much of the area in the photo
as possible without being cropped make
sure the light source isn't too intense
so that it doesn't bleach out the image
always use the two second timer when
taking the photograph to prevent lens
shake and blurry images avoid
photographing a coin in a two-by-two
holder or a vinyl flip as there will be
too much reflection to prevent taking a
good photograph once one has taken a
photograph of the coin one needs to
process the image here is an unprocessed
image of the reverse of a buffalo nickel
using Lightroom one can adjust the
exposure saturation contrast and even do
a lens profile correction also it is a
good time to adjust the angle of the
coin so that it looks perfectly
horizontal I usually will export the
image from lightroom as a tiff file and
then white balance and gimp using the
levels tool the round selection tool is
useful at cropping the image to isolate
it against a white background one
however needs to make sure that the coin
is cropped properly in this example the
edges of the coin are not consistent as
some areas are cropped too close and
other areas are cropped wider once one
has taken care to have the selection of
line properly the coin can be cropped to
where the edges are more consistent some
grading companies such as NGC use white
holders moreover the part of the holder
in contact with the coins can obscure
portions of the rim to where they will
still appear when cropped while this is
not the main reason why I dislike NGC
holders it sure does pose a hindrance at
getting a great image of a coin
certified by them after the coin has
been isolated against a white background
one can see that the edges are too sharp
and not blending well I correct this
with the fill tool and I generally do
this and color it as it produces
wonderful
results when one needs to edit a photo
of a coin that is really tight in the
field of view it is not a good idea to
use the lens profile correction feature
in Lightroom if one were to use that
feature it could crop the top or bottom
edges of the coin
sometimes the edges may exhibit some
unwanted colors that were not eliminated
when one selects the eliminate chromatic
aberration feature this uncertified bust
half-dollar was photographed against a
white sheet of paper and the edge on the
right as well as near the bust and the
bottom of the hair appear a little
bluish in this case one can adjust the
blue color level while the difference is
very subtle it is an improvement of the
overall look adjusting the vibrance can
enhance the appearance of toning on the
coin while this dollar looks stunning
without increasing the vibrance it is
actually a little bit bland notice the
overall improvement of the image by
adjusting the vibrance in Lightroom so
here are a few key points when editing a
photograph of a coin make sure that the
lens profile correction doesn't crop the
coin after adjusting the Roth photo
export the image in the TIF format to
make cropping adjustments etc save the
edited file in TIF in case you have to
make any additional changes and then you
can export the final image in JPEG or
PNG to upload it to the Internet and
show it off to your friends here are a
few coins I photographed using the
methods demonstrated enjoy
you
thanks for watching